- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9H87tHCLK1Q&ab_channel=DamiAdeniji}}
  id:: 6410a78e-19ec-47f3-be7f-33453d487a14
	- #apple #consommation
	  id:: 6410a78e-b4ce-4d9f-aa31-7c2eb06d994f
	- [[Steve Jobs]]
		- charisme
	- [[availability heuristic]]
	- le marketing d'#apple est basé sur la promesse d'une identité positive.
		- créativité
		- luxe
		- lifestyle
	- illusions
	- [[peak end rule]]
	- amélioration des produits remplace l'amélioration de soi. confusion entre upgrade et progression.
	- écosystème est une prison dorée
		- path of least resistance
	- loyauté
		- ex usb-c vs lightning
	- > we need these devices way more these devices need us.
	- frustration
		- #clientélisme
-
- Inflation data arrives at critical moment for Fed after bank failures, jobs data
	- https://finance.yahoo.com/news/inflation-data-arrives-at-critical-moment-for-fed-after-bank-failures-jobs-data-192322720.html
	- #économie #USA #inflation
	- > The closely-watched Consumer Price Index (CPI) is expected to show consumer prices cooled slightly last month, with headline inflation forecast to rise 6% over the prior year, a slowdown from January's 6.4% annual gain, according to estimates from Bloomberg.
		- #consommation
	- > Tuesday's inflation data comes just over a week before the Fed's next policy announcement, set for March 22, at which investors now expect the central bank to raise interest rates by 25 basis points, or 0.25%.
	- > "The Fed needs to see more evidence of reduced demand for labor to develop a more confident read of the influence of more restrictive monetary policy biting into income, consumption demand and consequently inflation, and particularly the sticky-high service inflation," Rick Rieder, BlackRock’s chief investment officer of global fixed income, wrote in a note on Friday.
		- #travail
-
- https://syndicat.solidaires.org/@SolInfoNat/110016876774896130
	- <iframe src="https://syndicat.solidaires.org/@SolInfoNat/110016876774896130/embed" class="mastodon-embed" style="max-width: 100%; border: 0" width="400" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>
	  id:: 653fad73-8f7e-4237-84f9-83f29814bf62
	- #travail #technologie #France #strapi
	-
- Meta layoffs: Facebook owner to cut 10,000 staff
	- https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-64954124
	- #meta #facebook
	- > Mr Zuckerberg cited higher interest rates in the US, global geopolitical instability and increased regulation as some of the factors affecting Meta.
	- > Meta has the added risk of Mark Zuckerberg's enormous gamble on the metaverse being The Next Big Thing. If he's right, his firm will regain its crown, but if he's wrong, the $15bn+ dollars he has spent on it so far could disappear in a puff of mixed reality smoke.
	- > "In the meantime, I encourage all of you to find more opportunities to work with your colleagues in person."
	- > And now they're faced with a perfect storm of falling ad revenues from companies with their own bills to pay, and a user base which has less money to spend, making existing ad space less valuable.
		- basculement d'un modèle économique de revenus #publicité vers un modèle basé sur l'[[économie de l'abonnement]]
-
- The Silicon Valley Bank Collapse Should be a Radicalizing Moment
	- https://www.disconnect.blog/p/the-silicon-valley-bank-collapse
	- #SVB
	- > They spent the past fifteen years eroding the position of workers, extending surveillance practices, funding monopolistic endeavors to destroy traditional industries, and ultimately creating bubbles they knew would burst, but which they hoped to profit off.
	- > For years, the narrative of the tech industry was that it was run by conscientious liberals, but no one can reasonably argue that any longer — if it was ever truly anything more than a marketing pitch for a particular moment in US politics.
	- > Teamflow founder Flo Crivello opined that the reaction to the collapse was a much bigger story than the fact his colleagues had kicked off a bank run because of the “honest to god, hammer and sickle communists hating tech and actually wanting our heads on a spike.”
	- > After years of being treated as our saviors, they haven’t responded well to the increased criticism leveled at their industry and the role they’ve played in all the ways tech has made the world a far worse place. People are getting fed up with rampaging Goliaths who want to be treated as heroic Davids until the end of their days.
	- > The system devised by the people at the top of Silicon Valley has made them fabulously wealthy, but it hasn’t worked out for the rest of us. They promise us innovations that will improve our lives, but the reality is they gave up on true innovation long ago. Instead, they’re just tinkering with new systems to exploit, exclude, and oppress for profit — consequences be damned.
-
- ‘Let 1,000 Flowers Bloom’: A.I. Funding Frenzy Escalates
	- https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/14/technology/ai-funding-boom.html
	- #IA #économie
	- > Last week, Salesforce announced a $250 million fund for investing in generative A.I. start-ups, alongside new investments in Cohere, Anthropic and others.
		- #Salesforce
	- > Sam Lessin, a venture capitalist at Slow Ventures, said he didn’t think the tech advances in A.I. translated to opportunities for start-ups. The best way to invest in A.I., Mr. Lessin said, is to buy the publicly traded stocks of big tech companies.