- Tech-last
	- https://www.robinrendle.com/notes/tech-last/
	- > Here’s one example: many years ago I couldn’t get folks on a team to stop talking about emoji. At every turn folks would see the popularity of emoji bloom around them and then they would try and slam it into the website we worked on together. Emoji all the things! The team was obsessed with the emoji they were seeing in emails and websites and apps that they couldn’t imagine a world without them. They believed that our humble website looked out of touch without emoji, where I loudly, aggressively argued that by chasing trends we would never be the ones to set them.
	  > 
	  > A few months later, the obsession was gone. Overnight we stopped talking about emoji and now every other conversation was focused on some half-baked project about chatbots. Then it was crypto of course, then a few years later it was NFT junk that disappeared just as quickly as it came, and now, today, again with the chatbots. Although they’ve improved quite a bit, I still believe that once the initial excitement wears off it’s easy to see how these tools spit out mostly useless and irrelevant chunks of words that you can’t ever trust.
	  > 
	  > It’s cool tech, sure. But it ain’t a product.
	- > Tech-first is why crypto and NFTs was always a bad idea. Tech-first is why collecting vast amounts of data without a clear purpose was, and always will be, a terribly silly idea.
	- > if you want to build anything substantial, if you truly want to build a great product, then the technology has to come last.
-
- Earnings: Zoom, Costco, Salesforce & LEGO
	- url:: https://genuineimpact.substack.com/p/earnings-zoom-costco-salesforce-and?publication_id=948111&post_id=107416096&isFreemail=true
	- > The CRM giant beat all expectations for EPS and revenue, sending its stock up 16% after the announcement. As with many other tech companies during this time, Salesforce cut thousands of jobs in a bid for higher profitability which included co-CEO Bret Taylor stepping down from his position.
	  > 
	  > More recently, Salesforce debuted their own AI service - Einstein GPT - to be integrated within their CRM system.
	- #Salesforce
-
- https://www.mindmedia.fr/medias-audiovisuel/abonnements-numeriques-1-2-les-lecteurs-sont-de-plus-en-plus-difficiles-a-convaincre/
	- > Le Monde revendique également une baisse du churn. “Globalement, nous avons acquis le même nombre de nouveaux abonnés que l’année dernière, mais avons réussi à diminuer le nombre de désabonnements de 8 %”, indique ainsi Lou Grasser, directrice marketing et produit du Monde. Une partie de cette réussite tient à la mise en place d’un service de rétention par téléphone : les abonnés, auparavant contraints d’envoyer un courrier recommandé pour résilier leur abonnement, peu- vent aujourd’hui le faire par téléphone. Au bout du fil, des équipes spécialement formées peuvent alors mettre en avant l’ensemble des services auxquels l’abonnement donne accès ou proposent d’adapter l’offre. Les chances de rétention s’en trouvent améliorées. Libération envisage de mettre en place un dispositif similaire.
	- > Lise Benamou (Les Échos - Le Parisien) rappelle la politique relationnelle mise en place pour ses titres, notamment via l’analyse de la donnée et la mise en place de “routes” ou programmes anti-churn : “Si une baisse de la consommation d’un abonné est observée, nous mettons en avant les avantages auxquels il a accès pour le conduire à consommer davantage de produits (podcasts, newsletter, etc.). Cette consommation de produits autres que les articles a nécessairement un impact sur la fidélisation”.
-
- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8vHKCrNGPhY&ab_channel=BigThink}}
	- #probabilités #bayes
-
- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oKkzVII_wHQ&ab_channel=QuantaMagazine}}
	- #IA #technologie
	- #privacy #apple