- Phase change
	- url:: https://www.robinsloan.com/lab/phase-change/
	  bookmark:: readwise
	- > It fits into a pattern I’ve noticed: while the buzzy application of the GPT-alikes is chat, the real workhorse might be text transformation.
	- > For me, 2022 and 2023 have presented two thick strands of inquiry: the web and AI, AI and the web.
	- > AI at this moment feels like a mash-up of programming and biology. The programming part is obvious; the biology part becomes apparent when you see AI engineers probing their own creations the way scientists might probe a mouse in a lab.
	- > As these models have grown, there have been widely observed “phase changes” in their capabilities, just as sudden and surprising as water frozen or cream whipped.
	- > What could I do with a universal function — a tool for turning just about any X into just about any Y with plain language instructions?
	  I don’t pose that question with any sense of wide-eyed expectation; a reasonable answer might be, eh, nothing much. But I think it IS the question, and I think it takes some legitimate work, some strenuous imagination, to push yourself to believe it really will be “just about any X” and “just about any Y”.
	- > The simple act of asking and answering the question was clarifying and calming. It plucked AI out of the realm of abstract dread and plunked it down on the workbench.
	- > We are living and thinking together in an interesting time. My recommendation is to avoid chasing the ball of AI around the field, always a step behind. Instead, set your stance a little wider and form a question that actually matters to you.
	- > what do I want from the internet, anyway?
	- #IA #web
-
- Why Write?
	- > Writing is not just a vehicle to share ideas with others but also a way to understand them better yourself.
	- > Writing requires the compression of an idea. When done poorly, compression removes insights. When done well, compression keeps the insights and removes the rest. Compression requires both thinking and understanding, which is one reason writing is so important.
	- > Think of the difference as starting at the beginning or the end of a maze. When you start at the beginning, you have to convince people the path is the right one. When you start at the end, they already know you’re taking them where they want to go.
	- > Many things can be done by tools that write for you, but they won’t help you learn to think or understand a problem with deep fluency. And you need deep fluency to solve hard problems.
	- #IA #écrire